>> Kyle: Welcome back.
I'm sure you're eager to see exactly
how we bring all of these little pieces
together in this exercise.
So let's start by looking
at those instructions.
We're gonna start with item number one.
It tells us straight up, we wanna look
at the printFavoriteBooks function.
And specifically we wanna zero in on
whether there's an accidental type
conversion that's happening.
That's otherwise known as
an implicit type conversion.
And there's a little hint here that
says if we've got something going
from a number to a string, we can use
the String function to modify that.
So let's look at
the printFavoriteBooks function.
And you'll notice right off the bat that
there is a value here that we know is
a number because the length
property of any array is a number.
That number is being included inside
of a string, which means that it's
automatically or implicitly being
converted from a number to a string.
Now, the truth is there's no big problem
with converting numbers to strings.
That's a pretty safe type conversion.
And most developers probably wouldn't
be that concerned about allowing that
implicit coercion.
But I do just wanna point out, just for
the sake of practice, that there's
a way to be more explicit about it.
And that is to wrap that call
to favoriteBooks.length in
a function call to the String function.
So if I put String around
the favoriteBooks.length,
now we are explicitly saying,
make sure that it is a string value before
it's concatenated or before it's
dropped into the larger String volume.
It won't change any of
the output of your program, but
it's just being a little bit more savvy,
a little bit more aware about your types.
And even if it wasn't a problem now,
it is potentially some sort of bug later.
So anything you can do to make your
code be a little bit more clear,
a little bit more expressed and obvious.
That will help you down the line.
That's a really important practice
to pick up as a developer.
Okay, let's go back to the instructions.
Let's look at number 2.
We wanna move the addFavoriteBook and
printFavoriteBook functions
into the Bookshelf class.
And now we're gonna make the methods.
And there's a really important hint here,
which is the class methods.
If you remember from
the slides a little while ago,
they don't have a function keyword in
them, they're just the name there.
So we've got to take the function keyword
off, and also don't miss this part.
And because they're gonna be methods,
we're gonna need to update
them to use the this keyword.
So that we are referencing
our instance of our class.
So I will do this one at a time.
I'm gonna take
the addFavoriteBook function and
we're gonna move it inside of
the class definition for bookshelf.
I will indent it one.
You'll notice even by
my syntax highlighting,
it can tell that the word
function doesn't belong here.
That's why it's white,
so if we take that off.
Just like with our constructor,
now we are defining a class method.
A class method called addFavoriteBook,
which still takes in a book name.
But what's important now is that
favoriteBooks is no longer a variable
that we're gonna access
through lexical scope.
We're gonna access that through the this
mechanism and the prototypes mechanism.
So what we need to do is prefix
that reference to favoriteBooks for
the this method, for this reference.
Remember whenever we call somewhere,
an instance of this Bookshelf class,
we're gonna be saying
something .addFavoriteBook.
And that something that .addFavoriteBook
is gonna tell addfavoriteBook to
use a this that's pointing
at that something instance.
So that's why we want to
make it a this aware method.
We'll do the same thing with
the printFavoriteBooks.
We're going to move that inside of
the Bookshelf class definition.
We're gonna take off the function keyword,
so that is a method now.
And then,
we have two references to favorite books.
We've gotta make sure to put the this
dot in front of both of them.
If you don't end up putting
it in front of both of them,
you won't access the correct one.
It'll be trying to find a global
variable of that name, it won't find it.
Things will break, you'll cry.
So just make sure you make your functions,
your methods, rather, be this aware.
Okay, we're making some good progress.
Let's go back to our instructions.
Number 3 in the instruction says
first to fill out the definition
of the loadBooks function.
Remember that's outside of the class,
it's not a method, it's a function.
It's outside of it, and
we're gonna fill it out and
it's going to receive as a parameter
an instance of theBookshelf class.
So we're gonna have some kind of
Bookshelf that we're passing in.
Some sort of Bookshelf instance.
So we've already got the loadBooks
function kind of sketched out here.
We're gonna need to name some kind of
parameter, and I'll just say theBookshelf.
For lack of a better name for
it, we'll say theBookshelf,
which is a specific instance of
the general Bookshelf class.
Now, instruction number 4 says
that loadBooks should call
what we've already been provided
as a fakeAjax function.
And we're gonna pass along a variable
called BOOK_API and we're gonna write and
pass along an inline function expression.
That's a big old bunch of stuff.
Let's break that down one at a time.
First of all, we have a fakeAjax
function that I've already provided.
You're not supposed to
change anything about it.
But it's just here just to demonstrate
the idea of making an Ajax call
without all the complexity of needing
a server to actually talk to.
Okay, so fakeAjax we can see expects
a URL and expects a cb, a callback,
which is going to be
a function that we invoke.
And you'll notice that that function is
gonna get called with an array of book
names.
Okay, so
what we need to do then is in loadBooks,
we need to actually call fakeAjax.
And what we're gonna pass to fakeAjax,
first we're gonna pass it a URL.
And we have a variable called
BOOK_API that we can pass in.
So when we pass in BOOK_API, the way
we're able to access that, by the way,
that's lexical scope.
This function doesn't have
a BOOK_API variable, but
it does have access to the outer scope,
which has BOOK_API.
Now we are gonna need to pass in,
the instruction said,
an inline function expression.
So we are gonna write a function and
I wanna give it a name,
I don't wanna use
anonymous functions here.
I want to give it a name and
I'm going to call this ,onBooks.
Because I know that this
is loading my books and so
onBooks is indicating that
I have received them back.
And so the parameter name that I'm
gonna get, remember it's an array
of book names, so I'm just gonna call it,
bookNames, plural.
I'll put those curly braces there.
And now,
this is a in-line function expression.
It's a name function expression that's
gonna get invoked whenever cb is called.
That’s gonna be calling
our onBooks function and
passing an array of book names.
Now, let’s go back to the readme and
check what item 5 says.
It says the callback's gonna be
passed an array of book names.
We should loop through this array and
pass each book name to
addFavoriteBook method on whatever
instance we’ve passed into to loadBooks.
So we passed in this
theBookshelf instance and
it's the thing that has
an addFavoriteBook method on it.
So we're gonna actually call,
we want to loop through the book names,
remember loops.
We're gonna do another for of loops,
we'll say (let bookname of booknames).
And for each of these book names
we want to say theBookshelf dot.,
and the method we gonna
call is addFavoriteBook.
Remember what I was saying just a little
while ago, here is our function call site.
Using the implicit binding, it's gonna
invoke this method, the one from line 6.
But it's gonna invoke
it in the this context
of our instance which is theBookshelf.
And that's the thing that's holding
this copy of the favoriteBooks array.
So we wanna pass in bookName to
the theBookshelf.addFavoriteBook method.
Now, after that for loop finishes,
all of our book names should have been
added into our instance of theBookshelf.
And lastly the instructions
tell us that we should call
the printFavoriteBooks method
on that same instance.
So we're gonna say,
theBookshelf.printFavoriteBooks.
And again, here's our implicit binding.
The printFavoriteBooks() function
knows that it should be invoked with
a thisKeyword that is
pointing at theBookshelf.
>> Kyle: Last step then, it says in item
6 that we need to create an instance
to Bookshelf class and
pass it in as an argument to loadBooks.
So let's try that.
Let's say,
we're gonna make an instance, so
I'll call it as myBooks = new Bookshelf.
That's for
instantiating an instance of a class.
And then we're gonna call loadBooks and
we're gonna pass in myBooks.
And that should invoke our function.
There will be a delay, remember
this setTimeout, it's gonna delay.
But because of closure,
it still knows about theBookshelf,
that's our closure being used
across that function boundary.
Still knows about theBookshelf and
it's able to invoke methods on it.
And then those are able to get
a thisContext for our instance.
So with all those pieces in place,
let's cross our fingers.
And let's go over to a runtime
environment, like runjs,
and lets test it and
see how it works, and there we go.
If I scoot this over, we can see it did,
in fact, print out our favorite books, 3.
And our list of our three favorite books
and it did that by pulling those from
the favoriteBooks array that is on
our instance of the Bookshelf class.
>> Kyle: So
we wove all three of the major pillars of
JavaScript into this one code base.
We took care of our types and
our conversion.
We made them more explicit in
places just so things are clear.
We used some closure to
remember things even over time,
even when a function's
executed at a later time.
And we used a class instance to collect
some data and some methods behavior.
Some method behavior
together into one instance.
And that is a good illustration of
the breadth of things that you wanna make
sure you practice.
And try to get to some more
level of expertise on,
as you go throughout
your JavaScript career.
That won't be tomorrow, or
the next day, or even the next week.
But those are the three things, that's
your road map that you wanna focus on as
you work towards learning and digging
further into the JavaScript language.
Make sure you try this exercise
at least a couple more times.
Start from the blank empty file or
from the original file.
Try it from scratch and make sure
to practice each of those things.
And maybe even try changing a few things.
Maybe make a few instances of Bookshelf
and try to make a few different calls and
passing different results.
And check to see that you understand
how each of these three pieces
is moving with respect to all the others.
There is no substitute in learning
JavaScript other than just writing
the JavaScript.
I hope you've had fun with this exercise.
I hope it's been enlightening.
I hope it sparked some curiosity for you.
And I look forward to seeing the kind
of JavaScript you'll be writing very,
very soon.